I think that OpenAI is likely going to
be the next multi- trillion dollar
hypers scale company. Okay,
[Music]
[Applause]
>> Jensen. Great to be back, of course,
with my partner Clark Tang. You know, I
can't believe it's
>> Welcome to Invidia. Uh, oh, and nice
glasses.
>> Um, those actually look really good on
you. The problem is now everybody's
going to want you to wear them all the
time. They're going to say, "Where are
the red glasses?"
>> I can vouch for that. So, it's been over
a year since we did the last pod.
>> Yeah.
>> Over 40% of your revenue today is
inference, but inference is about ready
because of chain of reasoning. Yeah.
>> Right. It's about
>> It's about to go up by a billion times,
>> right? By by a million x by a billion.
>> That's right. That's the part that most
people have, you know, haven't
completely internalized. This is that
industry we were talking about. This is
the industrial revolution.
>> Honestly, it's it's felt like you and I
have had a continuation of the pod every
day since then. You know, in AI time,
it's been about a hundred years. I was
re-watching the pod recently and the
many things that we talked about that
stood out. The most the one that that
was probably most profound for me was
you pounding the table
>> that you know remember at the time there
was kind of a slump in terms of
pre-training
>> and people were like, "Oh my god,
>> the end of pre-training,
>> right? The end of pre-training. We're
not going. We're overbuilding. This is
about a year and a half ago.
>> And you said inference isn't going to
100x, a thousandx, it's going to 1
billionx.
>> Mhm.
>> Which brings us to where we are today.
You know, you announced this huge deal.
We ought to start there.
>> I underestimated.
Let me just go on record. I estimated we
we now have three scaling laws, right?
We have pre-training scaling law. We
have post-training scaling law.
Post-training is basically like uh AI
practicing. Yes,
>> practicing a skill until it gets it
right. And so it tries a whole bunch of
different ways and and uh in order to do
that, yeah, you've got to do inference.
So now training and inference are now
integrated in reinforcement learning.
>> Really complicated. And so that's called
post training. And then the third
>> is inference. The old way of doing
inference was one shot,
>> right?
>> But the new way of doing inference,
which we appreciate, is thinking. So
think before you answer.
>> Yeah. And so now you have three scaling
laws. The the longer you think, the
better the quality answer you get. While
you're thinking, you do research, you go
check on some ground truth. And you you
learn some things, you think some more,
you go learn some more, and then you
generate an answer. Don't just generate
right off the bat.
>> And so thinking, post-training,
pre-training, we now have three scaling
laws, not one. You knew that last year,
but is your level of confidence this
year in the inferences going to 1
billionx and where that will take the
levels of intelligence is it higher? Are
you more confident this year than you
were a year ago?
>> I'm more confident this year and the
reason for that is because look at the
agent systems now
>> and AI is no longer a language model and
AI is a system of language models and
they're all running concurrently maybe
using tools. Some of us using tools,
some of us doing research and yeah,
there's a whole bunch of stuff and it's
all multimodality and look at all the
video that's being generated. I mean,
it's just crazy stuff. Yeah.
>> It really brings us to, you know, kind
of the seminal moment this week that
everybody's talking about the massive
deal. You announced a couple days ago
with OpenAI Stargate where that you're
going to be a preferred partner, invest
hundred billion dollars in the company
over a period of time. they're going to
build 10 gigs and if they used Nvidia
for those 10 gigs that could be upwards
of 400 billion in revenue to Nvidia. So
help us understand you just tell us a
little bit about that partnership what
it means to you right and why that
investment makes so much sense for
Nvidia.
>> So first of all that I'll answer that
last question first and then I'll come
back and present my way through. I think
that OpenAI is likely going to be the
next multi- trillion dollar
hypers scale company.
>> Okay.
>> I think you and I
>> Why do you call it a hypers scale
company?
>> Hypers scale like uh like Meta is a
hypers scale. Uh Google's a hypers
scale.
>> They're going to have consumer and
enterprise services and and uh they are
very likely going to be the world's next
multi-t trillion dollar hypers scale
company. Yes.
>> And I think you would agree with that.
>> I agree.
>> If that's the case, the opportunity to
invest
before they get there, this is some of
the smartest investments we can possibly
imagine. And you got to invest in
things, you know,
>> right?
>> And it turns out we happen to know this
space.
>> And so the opportunity to invest in
that,
>> the return on that money is going to be
fantastic. So we love the opportunity to
invest. We don't have to invest, right?
>> And it's not required for us to invest,
but they're giving us the opportunity to
invest. Fantastic thing. Now let me
start from the beginning. So we're
partnering with with OpenAI in several
projects. First the first project is the
buildout of Microsoft Azure. We're going
to continue to do that
>> and that that partnership is going
fantastically. We're going we have
several years of buildout to do hundreds
of billions of dollars of work just to
do there.
>> Right.
>> The second is the OCI buildout
>> and uh I think there's some five, six,
seven gigawatts that are about to be
built out. And so we're working with OCI
and OpenAI and and SoftBank to build
that out,
>> right?
>> Those projects are contracted. Um we're
working on it. Lots of work to do. And
then the third the third is Core Weave,
right? And so uh all of Core Wee 4, I'm
talking about OpenAI still. Yes.
>> Okay. Everything in the context of
OpenAI.
>> And so so the question is what is this
new partnership? This this new
partnership is about helping OpenAI
working partnering with OpenAI to build
their own selfbuild
AI infrastructure for the first time,
>> right?
>> And so this is us working directly with
OpenAI at the chip level, at the
software level, at the systems level, at
the AI factory level um to help them
become a fully operated hypers scale
company that I mean this is going to go
on for some time. And it's going to
supplement it's going to supplement the
amount of you know they're going through
two exponentials as you know
>> right
>> the first exponential is the number of
customers is growing exponentially and
the reason for that is the AI is getting
better the use case is getting better
just about every every application is
connected to open now
>> and so they're going through the the
usage exponential the second exponential
is the computational exponential of
every use.
>> Yes.
>> Right. Yes.
>> Instead of just a oneshot inference is
now thinking before it answers. Yeah.
>> And so these two exponential is
compounding their compute requirements.
And so we we got to build out these all
these different projects. And so this
last one is an additive on top of
everything that they've already
announced, all the things that we're
already working on with them. It's
additive on top of that
>> and uh it's going to support the you
know this incredible exponential growth.
>> One of the things you said there that's
really interesting to me is kind of you
know they're going to be high
probability multi-t trillion dollar
company in your mind. I think it's a
great investment. At the same time, you
know, they're selfbuilding. You're
helping them self-build their data
centers. So, here to four, they've been
outsourcing to Microsoft to build the
data center. Now, they want to build
full stack factories themselves.
>> They want to do they want to they want
to basically have a relationship with us
the way that that Elon and X has
relation.
>> Correct.
>> I mean, Elon and Exel built.
>> Exactly. But I think that's
>> this is a very big deal
>> when you think when you think about
>> the advantage that Colossus had. Yeah,
>> they're building full stack. That is a
hyperscaler because if they don't use
the capacity, they could sell it to
somebody else.
>> In the same way Stargate, they're
building monstrous capacity. They think
they'll need to use most of it, but it
puts them in a position to sell it to
somebody else as well. It sounds very
much like AWS or GCP or Azure. That's
what you're saying.
>> Yeah, I I think they'll likely use it
themselves and um just think the case of
X, they'll likely use it themselves. Um
but they would like to have the the same
direct relationship with us, direct
working relationship and direct
purchasing relationship. Um uh Meta just
as with Zuck and Meta has with us uh
it's exactly a direct
>> um our relationship with uh between us
and Sunund and Google direct our
partnership with Satia and Azure direct.
Isn't that right? And so they've gotten
to a large enough scale
that they believe it's time for them to
start building these direct
relationships. So, I'm delighted to
support that and and all of and and
Satia knows it and Larry knows it and
everybody everybody's aware of what's
going on and everybody's very supportive
of it.
>> So, one of the things I find mysterious,
right? You know, you just mentioned
Oracle 300 billion Colossus what they're
building. We know what the sovereigns
are building. We know what the
hyperscalers are building. You know,
Sam's talking in terms of trillions. But
of the 25 sellside analysts on Wall
Street who cover your stock, if I look
at the consensus estimate, it basically
has your growth flatlining starting in
2027.
>> 8% growth 2027 through 2030. Okay, that
is the 25 people in their only job. They
get paid to forecast the growth rate for
Nvidia. So clearly
>> we're comfortable with that by the way.
>> Right. Look, we're comfortable with
that. Okay, we have no trouble beating
the numbers on a regular basis,
>> right? No, I understand that. But, but
there is this interesting disconnect.
>> No,
>> right. I hear it every day on CNBC and
Bloomberg.
>> And I think it goes to, you know, some
of these questions around, you know, uh,
shortages leading to a glut that they
don't believe. They say, "Okay, we'll
give you credit for 26, but 27, you
know, maybe we'll have too much and
you're not going to need that." But it
is interesting to me and I think it's
important to point out that the your
consensus forecast is that this won't
happen right and we also put together
forecast uh you know for the company
taking into account all of these numbers
>> and what it shows me is still even
though we're two and a half years into
the age of AI a massive divergence of
belief
>> between what we hear Sam Alman saying
you saying Sundar saying Satcha is
saying and what Wall Street still
believes and you know again you're
comfortable with that.
>> I also don't think it's inconsistent.
>> Okay. So explain that a little bit.
>> So first of all uh for the builders
we're supposed to be building for
opportunity
>> right?
>> We're we're builders.
>> Let me give you three points to think
through and and and these three points
uh it'll help you um hopefully uh be
more comfortable with Nvidia in this
future. So the first point and this is
the laws of physics point. This is the
most important point that general
general purpose computing is over and
the future is accelerated computing and
AI computing.
>> That's the first point.
>> And so the way to think about that is
there's how much how many trillions of
dollars of computing infrastructures in
the world that has to be refreshed.
>> Right. Right. And when it gets refreshed
it's going to be accelerated comput.
>> That's right. And so the first thing you
have to realize is that general purpose
computing and nobody disputes that.
Everybody goes, "Yeah, we completely
agree with that. General purpose
computing is over. Moore's law is dead."
People say these things. And so what
does that mean? So general purpose
computing is going to go to accelerated
computing. Our partnership with Intel is
recognizing that general purpose
computing needs to be fused with
accelerated computing to create
opportunities for them.
>> Is that right? And so one,
>> general purpose computing is shifting to
accelerated computing and AI. Two, the
first use case of AI is actually already
everywhere,
>> right?
>> It's in search recommener engines,
>> isn't that right? In shopping. The basic
hypers scale computing infrastructure
used to be CPUs doing recommenders,
right?
>> Is now going to GPUs
>> doing AI,
>> right?
>> So you just take classical computing,
it's going to accelerated computing AI.
You take hypers scale computing is going
from CPUs to accelerated computing and
AI and then now that's the second point
just feeding the metas the Google's the
bite dances the Amazons
>> and take their classical traditional way
of doing hyperscaling and moving into AI
>> that's hundreds of billions of dollars
>> and and because that may be four billion
people on the planet today if you take
Tik Tok meta into account
>> that's Google into account who are
already demanding workloads that are
driven by accelerated comput.
>> That's exactly right. And so there a
simp without even thinking about AI
creating new opportunities. It's about
AI shifting how you used to do something
to the way new way of doing something.
Okay. And then now let's talk about the
future. I just so far I've only spoken
kind of largely about
>> just mundane stuff.
>> Just mundane stuff. The old way is now
wrong. You're going to go, you're no
longer going to use uh uh fuel light
lanterns. You're going to go to
electricity. That's all.
>> Right.
>> Okay. And you no longer, you know, prop
planes. You're going to go to jets.
That's all. And so, you know, so far,
you know, that's all I've talked about.
And then
>> now that the incredible thing is when
you go to AI, when you go to accelerated
computing, then what happens?
>> What are the new applications that
emerge as a result? And that's all the
AI stuff that we're talking about.
And that's the that opportunity. What is
it? How do what does that look like?
Well, the simple way of thinking about
that is where motors replace labor and
physical activity. We now have AI. These
AI supercomputers, these AI factories
that I talk about, they're going to
generate tokens to augment human
intelligence, right? And human
intelligence represents what 55 65% of
the world's GDP. Let's call it $50
trillion.
And that $50 trillion is going to get
augmented by something. And so let's you
just let's come back to a single person.
Suppose I were to hire a $100,000
employee. And I augmented that $100,000
employee with a $10,000 AI. Yes.
>> And that $10,000 AI as a result made
that $100,000 employee twice more
productive, three times more productive.
Would I do it? Heartbeat. I I'm doing it
across every single person in our
company right now. Right.
>> Every single co-agents.
>> That's right. Every That's right. Every
single software engineer, every single
chip designer in our company already has
AIS working with them.
>> 100% coverage.
>> As a result,
>> the number of chips we're building is
better. The number is growing. The pace
at which we're doing it is right. And so
we're we're growing faster as a company.
As a result, we're hiring more people.
Our productivity is greater. Our top
line's greater. Our profitability is
greater. What's not to love about that?
Now apply the Nvidia story to the
world's GDP.
>> Yeah.
>> And so what's likely to happen is that
that $50 trillion is augmented by let's
pick a number
>> 10 trillion that $10 trillion
>> needs to run on a machine. M
>> now the reason that AI is different than
it in the past
>> in a way software was written a priori
>> and then it runs on a CPU and it doesn't
it runs it a a person would operate it
>> in the future of course AI is generating
tokens
>> but a machine has to generate the tokens
and it's thinking
>> so that software is running all the time
whereas in the past the software was
written once now the software is in fact
writing all the time it's thinking
>> in order for the AI to think it needs a
factory. And so let's say that that 10
trillion of token generated
>> 50% gross margins and 5 trillion of it
needs a factory needs an AI
infrastructure. So if you told me that
on an annual basis the capex of the
world was about $5 trillion
>> I would say the math seems to make
sense.
>> Yeah.
>> And that's kind of the future, right?
Yeah. the going from Excel general
purpose computing to accelerated
computing replacing all the hypers
scales with AI and then now augmenting
human intelligence for the world's GDP
>> and today that market is about our
estimate is about 400 billion annually.
>> Yeah.
>> So the the TAM you know is is a four to
5x increase over where it is today.
>> Yeah. Eddie last night, Eddie Woo at
Alibaba said between now and the end of
the year and excuse me, now and the end
of the decade, they're going to increase
their data center power by 10x. Right.
>> Right. You just said how much?
>> 4x.
>> There you go.
>> Yeah.
>> They're going to increase power by 10x.
And we we correlate to power.
>> Nvidia's revenue is almost correlated to
power. Isn't that right?
>> Yeah,
>> that's right. Yeah. Because
>> one other thing, what he what else did
he say?
>> Yeah.
>> He said token generation is doubling
every few months.
>> Yeah.
>> What's that saying? The the perf per
watt has to keep on going exponentially.
That's why Nvidia's like cranking it out
with perf per watt.
>> And revenue per watt is, you know, watt
is basically revenues in this future.
>> Embedded in this assumption, I find it
very fascinating historical context,
right? For 2,000 years, basically GDP
did not grow. Okay? And then we get the
industrial revolution, GDP accelerates.
We get the digital revolution, GDP
accelerates. And it basically what
you're saying, and Scott Besson has said
it, he said, I think we're going to have
4% GDP growth next year. Basically, what
you're saying is the world's GDP growth
is going to accelerate because now we
are giving the world billions of
co-workers that will do work for us. And
if GDP is an amount of output for a
fixed amount of labor and capital,
right, it has to accelerate.
>> It has to,
>> right?
>> It has to look at what's going on with
AI as a result of the technology of AI.
And that technology of AI, let's just
call it the large language models and
all the AI agents. It's now creating a
new industry of AI agents. There's no
question about that. Okay. So, so that's
OpenAI is the fastest growing revenue
company in history,
>> right? and they're growing
exponentially, right? And so, so AI
itself is a fast growing industry
because of AI needs a factory behind it,
right?
>> An infrastructure behind it.
>> There's this industry is growing. My
industry is growing.
>> And because my industry is growing, the
industry underneath it is growing.
Energy is growing.
>> Power shell.
>> This is the
>> This is like renaissance for the energy
industry, isn't that right? Nuclear
energy, you know, gas turbines. I mean,
look at all of those companies in the in
the infrastructure ecosystem underneath
us. They're doing incredibly well.
>> Everybody's growing. These numbers have
everybody talking about a glutter
bubble, right? Zuckerberg said last week
on a podcast, you know, he said,
"Listen, I think it's quite possible at
some point that we will have an air
pocket and Meta may in fact overspend by
$10 billion or whatever, but he said it
doesn't matter. It's so existential to
the future of his business that it's a
risk that they have to take. But when
you think about that, it sounds a little
bit like prisoners dilemma. Right. And
walk us again through
>> these are very happy prisoners.
>> Walk us again through Right. Today our
estimate is that we're going to have a
100 billion of AI revenue in 2026
excluding meta and excluding you know
the GPUs running recommener engines.
Okay. So there's
>> or search or
>> correct. So there there's other stuff
but let's call it 100 billion.
>> What is that industry anyways?
>> What is the industry already in hypers
scale? What is the hypers scales you
know between trillions?
>> Yeah exactly by the way that industry is
going to AI
>> before anybody starts at zero. You got
to start there.
>> But I think the skeptics would say we
need to go from a 100red billion of AI
revenue in 26 to at least a trillion of
AI revenue in 2030. Okay. You just were
talking a minute ago about five trillion
when you look at kind of global GDP. If
you do did a bottoms up, can you see
your way to a trillion dollars of
AIdriven revenues from a hundred billion
over the course of the next 5 years? Are
we growing that fast? Yes. And I would
also say we're already there.
>> Okay. So explain that.
>> Because the hyperscalers,
they went from CPUs to AI. Okay. Their
entire revenue base is all now AIdriven.
>> Correct.
>> Uh you can't do Tik Tok without AI.
>> You can't do YouTube short without AI.
You can't you know you can't do any of
this stuff without AI. Uh the the
amazing things that that Meta is doing
for for uh um uh you know customized
content, personalized content. You can't
do that without AI. It's all of that
stuff used to be humans, you know, doing
uh content a priori creating four
choices that are then
>> selected by a recommener engine.
Correct. And now it's infinite number of
choices generated by an AI, right?
>> But those things are already like we had
the transition from CPUs to GPUs largely
for those recommener engines and now
they're going
>> and that's fairly new I would
>> in the last three or four years. Zuck
would tell you I was at Sigraph and Zuck
would tell you you know they were late
getting to GPU for sure for sure.
>> GPUs for for meta is what couple years
and a half
>> it's pretty new search with GPUs
>> for sure
>> brand spanking new
>> for sure for sure
>> search for GPUs on GPUs
>> so your argument would be the
probability that we're going to have a
trillion dollars of AI revenues by 2030
is near certain because we're almost
already there. Okay,
>> let's just talk about incremental from
where we are.
>> Now we can talk about incremental from
where we are today, right? As you do
your bottoms up or your tops down, I
just heard your tops down about
percentage of global GDP.
>> Yeah.
>> What is the percentage probability that
you think we'll have a glut will run
into a glut in the next three or four or
five years?
>> Right. It's a distribution of we don't
know the future. It's a distribution of
power
>> until until we
fully
convert all
general purpose computing to accelerated
computing and AI. Until we do that,
>> yes,
>> I think the chances are extremely low.
>> Okay. Okay. And that will take a few
years.
>> That'll take a few years.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Let me ask one more and then
>> until all recommener engines are AI
based. until all content generation is
AI based because content generation
consumer oriented content generation is
very largely recommener systems and so
on so forth um and all of that's going
to be AI generated until until all of
the stuff what classically was hypers
scale now transitions to AI you know
everything from shopping to e-commerce
to you know all that stuff until
everything goes over
>> because but all this new build right
when we're talking about trillions.
We're investing ahead of where we are.
Um, you know, is that like at will? Are
you obliged to invest the money even if
you see a slowdown or a kind of a glut
coming or is this one of these things
that you're just waving the flag to the
ecosystem to say get out and build and
at some point in time if we see some of
this slow down, we can always pull back
on the level of investment.
>> Actually, it's the other way because
we're at the end of the supply chain,
right? And so, we respond to demand.
>> Okay? And right now all the VCs will
tell you and you guys know
>> the demand the short there's a shortage
of compute in the world not because
there's a shortage of GPUs in the world.
>> Okay, if they give me an order I'll
build it.
>> Mhm.
>> Right. We've over the last couple years
we've really plumbed the supply chain.
So all of the supply chain behind me
from wafer starts to co-ass HBM memories
you know all of that technology. We've
really geared up.
>> Yeah.
>> If we need to double we'll double.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. So the supply chain is ready. Now
we're just waiting for demand signals
and when when uh the the CSPs and the
hyperscalers and our customers uh do
their annual plan and they give us you
know their forecast um we respond to
that and we build to that.
>> Now what's what's going on of course is
that every one of their forecasts that
they provide us turns out to have been
wrong
>> right
>> because they under forecasted
>> and so now we're always in a scramble
mode. Mhm.
>> And so we've been in the scramble mode
now for you know a couple of years
>> and it's whatever forecast we've been
given has been always
>> significant increase from last year but
not not enough.
>> Satcha last year seemed to be pulling
back a little bit. You know seemed to be
you know some people called him the
adult in the room tamping down kind of
some of these these expectations. A few
weeks ago he said hey I've also built
two gigs this year and we're going to
accelerate in the future. Do you see
some of the traditional hyperscalers
that may have been moving a little
slower than let's call it a coreweave or
or or Elon X or maybe a little slower
than Stargate? Do you see them all? It
it sounds like to me they're all leaning
in more now and they're all also
>> because of the second exponential.
>> Okay.
>> We've already had one exponential we
were experiencing which was the adoption
rate of AI, the engagement of AI was
growing exponentially. Yes. The second
exponential that kicked in was
reasoning.
>> Yeah.
>> That was the conversation we had one
year ago.
>> One year ago.
>> Yeah. We said, "Hey, listen. The moment
you take AI from one shot,
>> memorizing an answer and Right.
Memorizing and generalizing, that's
basically pre-training."
>> Yeah.
>> So memorizing an answer, you know what's
8* 8? Just memorize it. Okay. And so
memorizing an answer and generalizing,
that was one shot AI. Now a year ago,
reasoning came about
>> for sure
>> research came about, tool use came
about, and now you're a thinking AI
>> 1 billion X.
>> It's going to use a lot more compute.
>> Certain hypers scale customers to your
point had internal workloads that they
had to migrate anyways from um from
general purpose computing to accelerated
computing. So they built through the
cycle. I think maybe some hyperscalers
had different workloads so they weren't
quite sure how quickly they could digest
it but everyone
>> has now concluded that they dramatically
underbuilt.
>> One of the applications that my favorite
is just good oldfashioned data
processing
>> structured data and unstructured data.
>> Just good oldfashioned data processing.
>> And very soon we're going to announce a
very big initiative of accelerated data
processing. M
>> data processing represents the vast
majority of the world's CPUs today.
>> It still completely runs on CPUs.
>> You know, if you go to data bricks, it's
mostly CPUs. You go to snowflakes,
mostly CPUs. Uh SQL processing at
Oracle, mostly CPUs. Everybody's using
CPUs to do SQL structured data.
>> In the future, that's all going to move
to AI data.
>> That is one gigantic massive market
>> that we're going to move to. But you
need you need a you need everything that
Nvidia does requires acceleration layers
and requires you know
>> domain specific right data processing
lies recipes we got to go build that but
that's coming
>> so one of the push backs I you know I
turned on CNBC yesterday they were like
oh glut bubble when I turned on
Bloomberg it was about roundtpping and
circular revenues okay and so for the
benefit of people you know at home know
these arrangements are when companies
enter into a misleading transaction
ction that artificially inflates revenue
without any underlying economic
substance. So in other words, growth
propped up by financial engineering, not
by customer demand. And the canonical
case everybody's referencing of course
is Cisco and Nortell from the last
bubble 25 years ago. So when you guys or
Microsoft or Amazon are investing in
companies that are also your big
customers, in this case you guys
investing in Open AI while Open AI is
buying tens of billions of chips, just
remind us and remind everybody else like
what is it what are the analysts on
Bloomberg and otherwise getting wrong
when they're hyperventilating about
circular revenues or about roundtpping?
>> 10 gigawatts is like $400 billion,
right? Something like that. and and that
$400 billion dollars will have to be
largely funded by their offtake,
>> right? Their revenue
>> which is growing exponentially.
It has to be funded by their capital,
the money they've raised through equity
and whatever debt they can raise.
>> Those are the three vehicles. And the
equity that they could raise and the
debt that they could raise has something
to do with the confidence of the
revenues that they could sustain
>> for sure. And so smart investors and
smart lenders will consider all of these
factors.
>> Fundamentally, that's what they're going
to do.
>> That's their company. It's not my
business. And of course, we have to stay
very close to them to make sure that we
build in support of their continued
growth.
>> Okay? And so, um, there's the revenue
side of it and has nothing to do with
the investment side of it. The
investment side of it is not tied to
anything. It's an opportunity to invest
in them. And as we were mentioning
earlier, this is likely going to be the
next multi- trillion dollar hypers scale
company. And who doesn't want to be an
investor in that? You know, my only
regret is that that they invited us to
invest early on.
>> I remember those conversations
>> and we were so poor, you know, that we
were so poor, we didn't invest enough,
you know, and I should have given them
all my money. And the reality is if you
guys don't do your jobs and keep up
with, you know, if if Ver Rubin doesn't
turn into a good chip, they can go get
other chips and put them in these data
centers,
>> right? There's no obligation that they
have to use your chips and and like you
said, you're you're looking at this as
an opportunistic equity investment. The
other thing I would say
>> and we've made some great investments. I
got to put it out there, you know, we
invested in XAI, we invested in
Corewave.
>> Incredible. Yeah.
>> Yeah. How smart was that?
>> Yeah. As I go back to this, the other
fundamental thing it seems to me is, you
know, you're putting it out there.
You're saying this is what we're doing.
And the underlying economic substance
here, right? It's not that you're just
some somehow sending revenues back and
forth between the two companies. We got
people sending money every month for
Chat GPT, a billion and a half monthly
users using the product. You just said
every enterprise in the world is either
going to do this or they will die. Every
sovereign views this as existential
to their national security and economic
security as as nuclear power. What
person, company or nation says
intelligence is bas basically optional
for yeah for us. I mean it's fundamental
to them.
>> Well the automation of intelligence
>> I beat the demand question to death. So
let's jump in a little bit to system
design and I'm I'm I'm going to turn to
Clark here in a sec second on that. But
in 2024, you switched to your annual
release cycle,
>> right, with Hopper.
>> You then had a massive upgrade which
required, you know, significant data
center overhaul with Grace Blackwell. In
2025, and in the back half of 26, we're
going to get Vera Rubin. 27 we'll get
Ultra and 28 Fineman. How is the annual
release cycle going? Okay. What were the
main goals of going to an annual release
cycle? And did AI inside Nvidia allow
you to execute the annual release cycle?
>> Yeah, the answer is yes. On the back on
the last question, without it, um,
Nvidia's velocity, our pace, our scale
would be limited.
>> And so without without AI these days,
um, it's just simply not possible to
build what we built. Now, um, why do we
do it? There's something that remember
uh uh Eddie said it uh at his earnings
call um or his conference. Uh Satia has
said it, Sam has said it. The token
generation rate is going up
exponentially.
>> Yeah.
>> And the customer use is going up
exponentially.
>> Um I think they're at 800 million weekly
active users or something like that.
>> Yes. I mean that's less than two years
from chat GPT, right?
>> And each of those users is generating
massively more tokens because they're
using inference time reasoning.
>> That's right. Exactly. And so so the
first thing is because the token
generation rate is going up so
incredibly two exponentials. Yeah.
>> On top of each other,
>> we have to un unless we increase the
performance
at incredible rates,
>> the cost of token generation will keep
growing because Mo's law is dead, right?
Because transistors basically cost the
same every single year now. And power is
largely the same. And between those two
fundamental laws, unless we come up with
new technologies to drive the cost down,
even if there's a slight difference in
growth, you give somebody a discount of
a few percent. How's that going to make
up for two exponentials?
And so we have to increase our per
performance annually at a pace that
keeps up with that exponential.
>> Yeah. So in the case of in the case of
um uh going from uh I guess uh uh Kepler
to yeah all the way to Kepler all the
way to um uh Hopper was probably
100,000x
>> that was the beginning of the AI journey
for Nvidia. 100,000x in 10 years. Okay.
Between Hopper and Blackwell, we
increased because of MVLink 72,
>> right?
>> 30x
>> in one year and then we'll get another X
factor again with Reuben and then we'll
get another X factor with Fineman. And
the way we we do that is because the
transistors aren't really helping us
very much, right? Moors law is largely
the density is growing up but going up
but the performance is not. And so if
that's the case, one of the challenges
that we have to do is we have to break
the entire problem down at the system
level and change every chip at the same
time and all the software stack and all
the systems all at the same time. The
ultimate extreme code design. Nobody's
ever codees at this level before,
>> right?
>> We change the CPU, revolutionize the
CPU, a GPU, the networking chip, the
MVLink scale up, the Spectrum X scale
out. Somebody said I heard somebody
said, "Oh yeah, it's just Ethernet."
Yeah. Right. Okay. So, Spectrum X
Ethernet is not just Ethernet. And
people are starting to discover, oh my
god, the X factors is pretty incredible,
>> right?
>> You know, Nvidia's Ethernet business,
the just Ethernet business is the
fastest growing Ethernet business in the
world.
>> Yeah.
>> And so, so scale out and of course now
we have to uh build even larger systems.
So, we scale across
>> um multiple AI factories connected
together. And then we do this at an
annual pace. And so we now have an
exponential of exponentials going
ourselves from technology. And that
allows our customers to drive the cost
of tokens down. Keep making those tokens
smarter and smarter with pre-training
and post-training and thinking. And as a
result, when the AI gets smarter, they
get more used. When they get more used,
they're going to grow exponentially.
>> For people who may not be as familiar.
>> Yeah. What is extreme code design?
>> Extreme code design means that you have
to optimize the model, algorithm,
system, and chip at the same time.
>> You have to innovate outside the box,
>> right?
>> Because Moore's law said you just have
to keep making the CPU faster and
faster. Everything got faster. You were
innovating within a box.
>> Just make that chip faster. Yeah. Well,
if that chip doesn't go any faster, then
what are you going to do? Innovate
outside the box. And so Nvidia really
changed things because we did two
things. We invented CUDA, invented GPUs,
>> and we invented the idea of code design
at a very large scale.
>> That's why there's all these industries
we're in. We're creating all these
libraries and code design. Number one,
full stack extreme is even beyond
software and GPUs. It's now at the data
center level switches and networking and
you know all of that all of that
software in the switches and the
networking and the nicks the scale up
the scale out
>> optimizing across all of that as a
result of that blackwell to hopper is
30x
>> no moors law could possibly achieve that
>> right
>> and so that's extreme
>> and that comes from the extreme code
design
>> that's because Nvidia has that's why we
got into networking and switching and
scale up and scale out and scale across
and building CPUs and building GPUs and
building nicks. You know that that's the
reason why Nvidia is so rich in software
and people we we check in more
open-source software in the world than
just about anybody except one other
company. I think it's AI2 or something
like that.
>> And so so we have such enormous richness
of software and that's just in AI. Don't
forget computer graphics and digital
biology and autonomous vehicles and you
know the amount of software we produce
as a company is incredible that allows
us to do deep and extreme code designs.
>> I heard from one of your competitors you
know yes he's doing this because it
helps drive down the cost of token
generation but at the same time your
annual release cycle makes it almost
impossible for your competitors to keep
up. um the supply chain gets locked up
more because you're giving three-year
visibility to your supply chain. So now
the supply chain has confidence as to
what they can build to. So do you think
about this? Wait wait wait before you
before you ask the question. Think about
this.
>> In order for us to do several hundred
billion dollars a year
>> of AI infrastructure buildout.
>> Yes.
>> Think about how much capacity we had to
go start a year ago.
>> Yes. We're talking about building
hundreds of billions of dollars of
>> wafer starts and DRAM buys and are you
you guys talking
>> Yeah.
>> This is now at a scale
that hardly any company can keep up
with.
>> So would you say your competitive moat
is greater today than it was three years
ago?
>> Yeah. You know, first of all, there's
just more competition than ever before,
but it's harder than ever before. Mhm.
>> And the reason why I say that is because
um wafer cost is getting wafer costs are
getting higher
>> which means that unless you do code
design at an extreme scale you're just
not going to be able to deliver the X
factor growth
>> number one number and so you you know
unless you unless you're working on six
seven eight chips a year
>> right
>> that's amazing thing it's not about
building an ASIC it's about building an
AI factory
>> system
>> and this system that has a lot of chips
in
and they're all co-designed
>> and together they deliver that you know
that 10x factor that we get
>> uh almost regularly. Okay. So number one
the code design is extreme. The second
thing is that the scale is extreme.
>> When your customers deploy a gigawatt
that's a you know 400,000 500,000 GPUs
right
>> getting 500,000 GPUs to work together is
a miracle.
>> I mean it's just a miracle. And so they
your customers are taking enormous risk
on you to go buy all of this. You got to
ask yourself what customer would place a
$50 billion PO
>> on an architecture,
>> right?
>> On an unproven architecture, a new one,
>> right? A new architecture.
>> Yeah. You just take out a whole new
chip. You're as excited as you are about
it, you know, and everybody's excited
for you
>> and and you just show the first silicon,
>> right? Who's going to give you $50
billion PO, right?
>> And why would you start $50 billion
worth of wafers for a chip that just
taped out?
>> But for Nvidia, we could do that because
our architecture is so proven. So number
the the scale of our customer is so
incredible. Now the scale of our supply
chain is incredible,
>> right?
>> Who's going to start all of that stuff,
pre-build all of that stuff for a
company unless they know that Nvidia can
deliver through? Isn't that right? and
they believe that we can we can deliver
through to all of the customers around
the world. They're willing to start
several hundred billion dollars at a
time.
>> This is just the scale is incredible.
>> To that point, you know, one of the
biggest key debates and controversies in
the world is this question of GPUs
versus A6,
>> Google's TPUs, Amazon's Tranium, and it
seems like everyone from ARM to OpenAI
to Enthropic are, you know, rumored to
be building one. Mhm.
>> Last year you said, you know, we're
building systems, not chips, and you're
driving performance through every single
part of that stack. You also said that
many of these projects may never get to
production scale.
>> But given like the
>> most of them,
>> given the seeming success of Google's
TPUs,
>> yeah,
>> you know, how are you thinking about
this evolving landscape today?
>> Yeah.
>> And
>> first of all,
>> Mhm. the the advantage that that Google
had is foresight.
>> Remember, they started TPU1
before everything started.
>> You know, this is no different than a
startup. You're supposed to build a
startup. You're supposed to create a
startup before the market grows.
>> Mhm.
>> You're not supposed to come up as a
startup when the market's a trillion
dollars large. Mhm.
>> You know the this fallacy and and all
VCs know this this fallacy that a large
market if you could just take a few
percent market share you could be a
giant company.
>> That's actually fundamentally wrong.
>> Yeah.
>> You're supposed to take 100% of a tiny
company, a tiny industry, which is what
Nvidia did did, right? Which is what
TPUs did. There were only the two of us.
>> But you better hope that that industry
gets really big. You're creating an
industry.
>> That's right. Right. and and I mean the
Nvidia story you know which
>> and so that's the challenge for the for
people who are building A6 now it looks
like a juicy market
>> but remember this juicy market has
evolved from a chip called a GPU to I
just described an AI factory and you
guys just saw I just announced a chip
called CPX for context processing and
diffusion video generation a very
specialized workload but an important
workload inside a data center I just
prelude it to maybe AI data processing
processors because guess what? You need
long-term memory. You need short-term
memory. The KV cache processing is
really intense.
>> AI memory is a big deal.
>> You know, you kind of like your AI to
have good memory and just dealing with
all the KV caching around the system.
Really complicated stuff. Maybe it wants
to have a specialized processor.
>> Maybe there's other things, right? So
you you see that Nvidia's our our our
viewpoint is now not GPU. Our viewpoint
is looking at the entire AI
infrastructure and what does it take for
these incredible companies to get all of
their workload through it which is
diverse and changing.
>> Look at the transformer. The transformer
architecture is changing incredibly. If
not for the fact that CUDA is easy to
operate on and iterate on, how do they
try all of their vast number of
experiments to decide which one of the
transformer versions, what kind of
attention algorithm to use? How do you
disagregate? CUDA helps you do all that
because it's so programmable. And so the
way to think about our our our business
now is you look at when when all of
these ASIC companies or ASIC projects
start 3, four, five years ago, I got to
tell you that industry was super
adorable and simple.
>> There was a GPU involved,
>> right?
>> But now it's giant and complex
>> and in another two years it's going to
be completely massive. The scale is
going to be so large. And so I think
that the battle the the battle of
getting into
>> a very large market as a nent player is
just hard you know as you guys know
>> even for the customers who perhaps are
successful with AS6.
>> Yeah.
>> Isn't there an optimal balance in their
compute fleet like it's you know I think
investors are very much binary
creatures. They just want a yes or no
black and white answer. But even even if
you get the ASIC to work, isn't there an
optimal balance because you think I'm
buying the Nvidia platform, CPX is going
to come out for prefill for, you know,
for video generation,
>> maybe a decode, you know, you know, a
platform video.
>> Exactly.
>> Yeah.
>> So there will be like many different
>> um chips or parts to add to the Nvidia
ecosystem,
>> accelerated compute fleet,
>> right? as new workloads are, you know,
are are born.
>> That's right.
>> And, you know, people trying to tape out
new chips today are not really
anticipating what's happening a year
from now. They're just trying to get a
chip to work.
>> That's right.
>> Set another way, Google's a big GPU
customer.
>> Google's a big GPU customer. Um, if you
look at and Google is a very special
case. I mean, we just have to, you know,
show respect where respect is really
deserved. I mean,
>> uh, TPU is on TPU7.
>> Yes.
>> Right. And so um and and uh
and it's a challenge for them as well,
right? And so so the work that they do
is incredibly hard. So so I think the
first thing to to let let me do a um you
know remember there there are three
categories of chips.
There's the category chips that are
architectural.
>> X86 CPUs, ARM CPUs, Nvidia GPUs.
Architectural
And it has an ecosystem above and and um
uh the architecture uh allows uh has
rich IP and rich ecosystem very
complicated technology. It's built by
the owners like us. Okay.
>> There's AS6.
I worked for the original company LSI
Logic who invented the idea of A6.
>> As you know LSI Logic is not here
anymore,
>> right? And the reason for that is
because AS6 is really fantastic. When
the the market size is not very large,
>> um it's easy to have somebody uh be a
contractor to help you put the packaging
of all that stuff together and do the
manufacturing on your behalf and they
charge you 50 60 points of margin. But
when the market gets large for an ASIC,
there's a new way of doing things called
coot,
>> customerowned tooling. And who would who
would do something like that? Um Apple's
as Apple Apple's smartphone chip the
volume is so large they would never go
pay somebody else 50 60% gross margin to
be an ASIC. They do customer own
tooling.
>> And so um where will TPUs go when they
when it becomes a large business?
Customer own tooling.
>> There's no question about it. And so a
but there's a place for A6.
>> Uh video transcoders will never be too
large.
Um, smart nicks will never be too large.
And so when when there's 10, 12, 15 as
projects going on at an ASIC company,
I'm not surprised by that,
>> you know, because there there probably
five smart nicks and four transcoders
and, you know, are they all AI chips? Of
course not. You know, and and if
somebody were to build an embedded
embedding processor for a specific
recommener system and that was an ASIC,
of course you could do that. But would
you do that as the fundamental compute
engine for AI that's changing all the
time? You've got low latency workload.
You got high throughput lo workload. You
have token generation for chat. You have
thinking workload. You have AI video
generation workload. Is there a you know
now you're talking about
>> the workhorse backbone of your
accelerated?
>> That's what Nvidia is all about. Again,
dumb this down. It's like playing chess
and checkers, right? The fact of the
matter is the folks who are starting AS6
today whether it's Tranium or whether
it's some of these other accelerators
etc. they're building a chip that's a
component of a much larger machine.
you've built a very sophisticated
system, platform, factory, whatever you
want to call it, and now you're opening
up a little bit, right? So, you
mentioned CPXGPU, right? That is, it
seems to me that it in some ways you're
disagregating the workloads to the best
slice of the hardware for that
particular domain.
>> Well, we did we announced this thing
called Dynamo,
>> right? disagregated orch AI workload
orchestration and we open sourced it
because the future AI factory is
disagregated
>> right
>> and you launched MV Fusion
>> that even said to your competitors
>> including Intel which you just invested
in
>> that's right
>> you know the way in which you
participate in this factory that we're
building because nobody else is crazy
enough to try to build the entire
factory but you can plug into that if
you have a product that's good enough,
compelling enough that the end user
says, "Hey, we want to use this instead
of an ARM GPU or we want to use this
instead of your inference accelerator,
etc. Is that correct?"
>> We're delighted delighted to connect you
in. Yeah.
>> Tell us a little bit fusion such a great
idea and we're so happy to partner with
Intel on that. It takes takes the Intel
ecosystem, you know, there most of the
world's enterprise still runs on Intel.
It takes the Intel ecosystem, takes the
Nvidia AI ecosystem, accelerated
computing, and we fused it together,
>> right?
>> And we did that with ARM,
>> right? And there are several others
we're going to be doing it with. And and
uh that that opens up opportunities for
both of us. It's a win for both of us.
Great great win. I'll be a large
customer of theirs and uh they're going
to expose us to a a much much larger
market opportunity.
>> Yeah. that's deeply related to this idea
is the argument you've made that kind of
um c shock some people where you say our
competitors building A6 they could
literally all their chips are cheaper
already today but they could literally
price them at zero our objective is they
could price them at zero and you would
still buy an Nvidia system because the
total cost of operating that system
power data center land etc the
intelligence out is still a better bet
than buying a chip even if it's given to
you for free
>> because the land power and shell is
already $15 billion,
>> right?
>> Yeah.
>> So, we've taken a crack at kind of the
math on that. But walk us through your
math because I think for people who
don't spend as much time here that it
just doesn't compute. How could it
possibly be that you were pricing your
competitor's chips at zero given the
expense of your chips and it still is a
better bet? There's two ways to think
about it. Um, one way is um, uh, let's
just think about it from a perspective
of revenues.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. So everybody's power limited and
let's say uh you were able to secure two
more gigawatts of power.
>> Well, that two gawatts of power you
would like to have translate to
revenues.
>> Yes.
>> So your
performance or tokens per watt
was twice as high as somebody else's
token per watt because you did I did
deep and extreme code design,
>> right?
and my performance was much higher per
unit energy,
>> then my customer can produce twice as
much revenues
>> from their data center.
>> And who doesn't want twice as much
revenues? and and and if somebody gave
them a 15% discount,
>> you know, the difference between our
gross margins, which is called the 75
points, and somebody else's gross
margins, call it the 50 to 65 points, is
not so much as to make up for the 30
times difference between Black Wall and
Hopper. Let's pretend Hopper Hopper is
an amazing chip, an amazing system.
Let's pretend somebody else's ASIC is
Hopper.
>> Yeah.
>> Black Wall's 30 times.
So you've got to give up 30x revenues in
that one gigawatt.
>> Mhm.
>> It's too much to give up. So even if
they gave it to you for free, you you
you only have 2 gigawatts to work with.
Your opportunity cost is so insanely
high.
>> You would always choose the best perf
per watt. So I heard this from one of
the CFOs at one of the hyperscalers that
given the performance improvement right
that's coming out of your chips again
precisely to that point tokens per per
gig um and power being the limiting
factor right that they had to upgrade uh
to the new cycle so when you look ahead
at Ruben at Ruben Ultra at Fineman
>> does that trajectory continue
>> we're building what six seven chips a
year now
>> yeah and and each one
>> that's part of that system.
>> That's right. And those that system
software is everywhere and it takes
>> it takes the integration and the
optimization across all of those six
seven chips to deliver on the 30x
blackwell. Now imagine I'm doing this
every single year. Bam bam bam bam bam
bam. And so if you build one ASIC in
that soup of AS6 in that soup of chips
and we're optimizing across that, you
know, it's a hard problem to solve.
>> This does bring me back to where we
started about the competitive moat.
We've been covering this and investors
for a while. We're investors throughout
the ecosystem and in competitors of
yours, you know, from Google to to
Broadcom. But when I really just first
principles around this and say
>> are you increasing or decreasing your
competitive mode,
you move to an annual cadence.
You're co-developing with a with a
supply chain.
The scale is massively bigger than
anybody anticipated which requires scale
both of balance sheet and of
development.
Right? the moves you made both through
acquisition and organically with things
like Envy Fusion, CPX, which we just
talked about. All of those things
together cause me to believe that your
competitive mode is increasing visav at
least in so far as building out the
factory or the system.
>> It's at least surprising.
>> But but but I think it's interesting
that your multiple is much lower than
most of those other people. And I think
part of that has to do with this law of
large numbers. A $4.5 trillion company
couldn't possibly get any bigger. But I
asked you this a year and a half ago as
you sit here today. If the market's
going to AI workloads are going to 10x
or 5x, you know, we know what capex is
doing, etc. Is there any conceivable
world in your mind where your top line
in 5 years isn't two or 3x bigger than
it is in 2025? Like what's the
probability that it's actually not not
much higher than it is today given those
advantages?
>> I'll answer it this way. Our opportunity
as I described it is much larger than
the consensus.
>> I'll say it here. I think Nvidia will
likely be the first 10 trillion dollar
company. And I would I've been here long
enough, it wasn't that long ago, just a
decade ago, as you well remember, that
people said there could never be a
trillion dollar company. Now we have 10,
right? And today the world's bigger,
>> right? And today, this is this is the
back to the exponentials around GDP and
the growth.
>> The world is bigger and and and people
misunderstand what we do. They they uh
they remember we're a chip company,
right? And we are we build chips. Boy,
do we build chips and build the most
amazing chips in the world. But NVIDIA
is really an AI infrastructure company.
You know, we are your AI infrastructure
partner and our partnership with OpenAI
is a perfect demonstration of that.
>> Yeah.
>> That we are their AI infrastructure
partner and we work with people in a lot
of different ways. You know, you you you
would uh we we don't require anybody to
buy everything from us.
>> Um we don't we don't require that they
buy uh the full rack. They could buy a
chip. They could buy a component. They
could buy our networking. They could buy
our We have customers buying only our
CPU. You know, just buy our GPUs and buy
somebody else's CPUs and somebody else's
networking. You know, we're kind of okay
selling any way you like to buy. You
know, my only request is just buy a
little something from us. You know, you
said, you know, this isn't just about
better models. We also have to build. We
have to we have to have worldclass
builders. And you said, you know, the
most world-class builder maybe that we
have in the country is Elon Musk. And we
talked about Colossus one and what he,
you know, what he was doing there,
standing up a couple hundred thousand,
you know, at the time H100s, H200s in a
coherent cluster. Now he's working on
Colossus 2, you know, which may be
500,000 GBs, um, millions of H100
equivalents in a coherent cluster. I
would not be surprised if he gets to a
gigawatt before anybody else does in
one.
>> Yeah. So say a little bit about that.
The advantage of being, you know, the
builder who, you know, isn't just
building the software and the models,
but understands what it takes to to
build those clusters.
>> Well, you know, these AI supercomputers
are complicated things. The technology
is complicated. Procuring it is
complicated because of financing issues.
Securing the land power and shell,
powering it is complicated. building it
all, bringing it all up. I mean, these
are this is unfortunately the most
complex systems problem humanity has
ever endeavored.
And and so Elon has has a great
advantage that in his head um all of
these systems are interoperating and um
and the and the interdependencies um are
are um you know resides in one head
including the financing.
>> Yes.
>> And so
>> he's a big GPT. He's a big supercomputer
himself.
>> He's the Yeah. the ultimate GPU. Yeah.
Yeah. And so so he has a great advantage
there. Yeah.
>> And and he has a great sense of urgency.
He Yeah. He has a has a real desire to
to build it and and so when when will
comes together with
>> with skill.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, unbelievable things can
happen.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. Quite unique.
>> Something you've been so involved in is
I want to talk about sovereign AI. I
want to talk about China and the global
AI race that's going on. You know, when
I look back at you 30 years ago, you
couldn't have imagined you were going to
be hanging out in palaces with airs and
the king this week and you're at the
White House all the time. The president
has said that you and Nvidia are
critical to uh US, you know, national
security. So when when you look at that
first just contextualize for me like
it's hard to believe that you would be
in those places if sovereigns didn't
view this at least as existential as
important as maybe we did nuclear in the
1940s
right we don't have a Manhattan project
today at least funded by the government
but it's funded by Nvidia it's funded by
open AI it's funded by Meta it's funded
by Google we have companies today the
size of nation states and thank god God
for America, right? Who are funding
something that it appears to me
presidents and kings think are think is
existential to their future economic and
national security. Would you agree with
that?
>> Nobody needs atomic bombs. Everybody
needs AI.
>> Well said.
>> Okay.
>> Here. Here.
>> Yeah.
>> Here.
>> And and so that's a very very large
difference. Um AI AI as you know is
modern software. I just that's where I
started from general purpose computing
to accelerated computing from human
written code line at a time to AI
written code that foundation can't be
forgotten we've reinvented computing
there's not a new species on earth we
just reinvented computing and everybody
needs computing it needs to be
democratized
>> which is the reason why everybody all of
these all of the countries realize they
have to get into the AI world because
everybody needs to stay in computing.
There's nobody in the world that says,
"Guess what? You know, I used to use
computers yesterday. I'm pretty good
with, you know, clubs and fire tomorrow,
you know, and so everybody needs to move
into computing. It's just it's just
being modernized. That's all." Okay.
Number one, um it it is the case that
that in order to participate in AI,
you have to encode within AI, your your
history, your culture, your values.
>> And and of course, AI is getting smarter
and smarter so that even the core AI is
able to learn these things fairly
quickly. You don't have to start from
the ground, you know, from ground zero.
And so I I think that that every country
um needs to have some sovereign
capability. I recommend that they all
use OpenAI, they all use Gemini, they
all use, you know, these open models use
Grock and I think they I recommend they
all do that. I I recommend they all use
anthropic.
>> Um but they should also dedicate
resources to learn how to build AI. And
the reason for that is because they need
to learn how to build it not just for
language models, but they need to build
it for industrial models, manufacturing
models, national security,
>> national security models. There's a
whole bunch of intelligence they had to
go cultivate themselves. So they they
ought to have sovereign capability.
Every country should develop it.
>> And is that what you see? Is that what
you're hearing around the world?
>> They all realize it.
>> They all realize
>> they all realize it. And they they all
are going to be customers of OpenAI and
Throbic and Grock and Gemini, but they
all really need to also build their own
infrastructure. And this is this is the
big idea that that what Nvidia does is
we're building infrastructure. Just as
every country needs energy
infrastructure, the communications and
internet infrastructure, now every
single country needs AI infrastructure.
So you let's start with the rest of the
world. You know, our our good friend
David Saxs. Um the AIS are doing a heck
of a job.
>> We are in so lucky.
>> Yeah.
>> To have David and Shriram in Washington
DC. Um doing you know and David doing
Yeah. doing AI in the AISR. Uh this at
what a what a smart move by President
Trump to put them in the White House.
>> Um because during this pivotal time
>> Yes.
>> the technology is complicated.
>> Shriram is the only person in Washington
DC that I think knows CUDA.
>> Yeah. Um and and
which is strange anyways. But but I I
just love the fact that during this
pivotal time when technology is
complicated, policy is complicated, the
impact to the future of our nation is so
great
>> that we have somebody who is
clear-minded, dedicating the time to
understand the technology
>> and thoughtful to uh help us through
that.
>> And it would seem to me, yeah, I'm going
back to the Manhattan Project analogy.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. that you have a president who
understands
>> how existential this is. You have
governors like Greg Abbott in Texas who
want to remove regulations to accelerate
because they understand how important it
is. You have secretaries right at energy
and Doug Bergram at interior and Lutnik
at commerce who also understand how
important this is, how pro- energy they
are. Could you imagine?
Could you imagine the alternative
if we had an administration right now
who is not proen energy and want energy
to grow in our nation so that we could
have AI?
>> I find it
>> I just can't even think about it.
>> I find it ironic that that that just a
couple years ago we were saying China's
building a 100 nuclear reactors. They're
so far ahead of us. Like that's the the
the primitive to AI. But now you have
people when we go to build it, everybody
says, "Oh, it's a glut, right?" Like it
seems to me that this is something that
the government, it is in their interest.
And we have industry and government
working together in a way that I haven't
seen in a long time. You've been around
a long time. You you're very close with
President Trump at this stage. Help us
understand like what is the nature of
industry government relationships? We
saw that dinner last week with all the
CEOs. You know, you spent a lot of time.
Is it unique? Have you seen anything
like this in your career over the last
30 years?
>> It was it was hard to go to DC in the
past as you know. Uh getting an
appointment is almost impossible,
>> right?
>> Uh President Trump has a open door to
leaders who wants to come in and uh help
them understand the future. Um this is
an administration that believes in
growth.
>> Fundamentally, President Trump wants
America to grow.
>> Yeah. If we can grow economically, we
will be strong militarily. If we could
be if we could grow economically, we
will be secure. I've never met somebody
who is secure who's poor.
>> Being being rich as a nation is an
essential part of national security. And
he knows that.
>> He also wants America to win the AI the
the AI race. This is going to be a very
long-term race. And um and he
understands that this is a pivotal time.
He wants the technology industry to run.
He wants everybody in the world to be
built on American technology.
>> These are sensible, logical things.
>> You know, the opposite is strange to me.
If I take everything and I just reversed
it, we want our country not to grow
>> and because we don't want our country to
grow, we don't need any energy because
we know we need energy to grow and so
let's not have any energy and in fact we
don't want our technology industry to
lead. uh he understands that our
technology industry is our national
treasure.
>> Correct.
>> And that technology like corn and steel
and things in the past are now such
fundamental trade opportunities. It's an
essential part of trade. And why would
you not want American technology to be
coveted by everyone so that it could be
used for trade?
>> Right. So let's talk about you know
>> the internet.
>> Yeah. Google spread around the world.
Yeah, we had democratic values spread
around the world by way of search and
Google didn't have to go to Washington
to get permission to do it. It just
happened. We diffused our technology
around the world. David Sachs has been
crystal clear of the need to accelerate
export licenses so that the American AI
stack wins around the world. Right?
We're talking chips, we're talking
models, we're talking data centers, etc.
We know a year and a half ago that
wasn't happening. was a concept that was
called small yard tall fence or
something like that. A small yard tall
fence and and
the irony of it was it was described in
such a way and it was recommended in
policy in such a way it was a small yard
tall fence around America.
That was the strange part. I think
President Trump's got it right that we
want to maximize exports.
We want to maximize American influence
around the world. We're supposed to
maximize those things.
>> And do you see those licenses coming?
Are you seeing the acceleration in
Washington? I know it's being said at
the top, but are you seeing it flow down
through government that's accelerating
us around the world?
>> Secretary Lutnick was all over it.
>> Great. Yeah.
>> So, now let's talk about China. You know
what most people may not realize is I
think you understand China as well as
any leader in the United States.
>> We've been there for 30 years.
>> Been there for 30 years. What most
people don't realize is is up until a
couple years ago, you had dominant
market share within China in terms of
>> 95% market share.
>> 95% market share in the most important
thing arguably.
>> And you have said that our biggest goal
that we as a country could have under
the guise of somehow trying to slow them
down is we've unilaterally disarmed. We
forced Nvidia out of China, which has
allowed Huawei to accelerate on the back
of monopoly profits within China. And I
just saw this morning, you're seeing
announcements out of Huawei and Baba and
others that they're going to build data
centers around the world. Now Huawei has
a three-year plan to pass Nvidia funded
by the monopoly profits in the biggest
AI market in the world. So it's looking
like your admonition
that this is a huge mistake to hand
China, you know, monopoly markets is
coming true. The president said, you
know, a a after kind of the ban on H20s,
now we have a situation where you can
sell, you know, chips to China, but
there's a 15% export tax. But now it
appears that the Chinese perhaps
offended by statements out of the United
States are saying no, Nvidia is not
allowed to sell here. Now where do we
stand today between Nvidia and China?
And can you reiterate kind of what you
think we as a country should be doing to
put ourselves in a best position to win
the AI race around the world?
>> We have a competitive relationship with
China. We should acknowledge that China
rightfully
should want their companies to do well.
We I don't I don't for a second begrudge
them for them. They should do well. They
should they should give them as much
support as they like. It's all their
prerogative.
And don't forget that China has some of
the best entrepreneurs in the world
because they came from some of the best
STEM schools in the world.
They're they're the most hungry in the
world.
>> Yes.
>> 996 as you know.
>> This is a very
>> producing the most AI engineers in the
world.
>> 96. So the audience knows 9 in the
morning to 9 at night 6 days a week.
>> That is their culture.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. We're up against a formidable,
innovative, hungry, fastm moving,
underregulated.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. People don't realize this. They
are very lightly regulated,
>> right? Less regulated, ironically, than
we are in a capitalist system.
>> That's right. People think that they're
centrally governed. But remember, the
genius of China was distributed economic
systems.
>> Yeah.
>> And so all of these 33
>> provinces and all the mayor economy has
driven enormous amount of internal
competition, internal economic vibrancy,
which of course has some of its side
effects. But this is a vibrant,
entrepreneurial, high techch, modern
industry. And two, one, uh, some of the
things I I heard, uh, they could never
build AI chips.
That just sounded insane. Two, uh, that
China can't manufacture. China can't
manufacture.
If there's one thing they could do is
manufacture. And three, they're years
behind us. Is it two years, three years?
Come on. They're nanconds behind us.
>> Nanoc.
>> Yeah, they're nanconds behind us. And so
we've got to go compete.
>> Yeah,
>> we've got to go compete.
>> And so so the question then becomes um
what's in the best interest uh what's in
the best interest of China of course um
is that they have a vibrant industry. Uh
they also publicly say and rightfully I
believe they believe this is that they
want China to be an open market. They
want to attract uh foreign investment.
They want companies to come to China and
compete in the marketplace,
>> right?
>> And I believe that they I hope I believe
and I hope that would return to that
>> in our context. Answering your question,
what do I see in the future? I do hope
because they they say it um their
leaders say it and I take it at face
value and I believe it because I think
it makes sense for China that what's in
the best interest of China is for
foreign companies to invest in China,
compete in China
>> and for them to also have vibrant
competition themselves and they would
also like to come out of China and
participate around the world. That is I
think is a fairly sensible outcome and
we what we need to do as a country is to
enable our technology industry which
today is the I'm privileged to be
working in an industry that is our
national treasure. We have to
acknowledge it is our national treasure.
It is our best industry.
>> It is our single best industry.
>> Yeah.
Why would we not allow this industry to
go compete for its survival for for this
industry to go and proliferate the
technology around the world so that we
could have the world be built on top of
American technology so that we can
maximize our economic success magn uh
maximize our geopolitical influence u
maximize this this technology industry
during such a vibrant time such a
pivotal time to allow it to thrive.
>> The skeptic says Jensen just wants to
sell more chips and if he can sell them
to China, great. He'll sell them to
China. He doesn't care about, you know,
what that means for America. That's a
skeptic. Now,
>> can I just can I just address the
skeptics? Just because I want America in
ecosystem and economy to grow doesn't
make me wrong.
>> Right. Right.
>> Okay. So, first of all, everything that
has been said so far that's been made up
so far about U. China has proven to be
wrong. The facts are just wrong. The
ground truth is wrong. And so
just because we want America to win,
just because we want this industry to
grow, doesn't make me wrong.
>> Correct. And I think anybody who knows
you and now the president, certainly
myself, you deeply care about the
country. You deeply want the United
States of America to win the global ai
race. You just happen to believe and I
think you have as much experience or
more experience than anyone that it
enures to our advantage the probability
of us winning the global AI race
actually goes up if you are competing in
China because it allows us to tap into
half of the world's AI engineers keeping
them you know in this ecos let's be
clear with the companies we're talking
about here bite dance Alibaba etc these
are companies that are largely owned by
American investors Yeah. Right.
>> Right. Like these are global companies
that are building recommener engines
that
>> by the way extraordinary technologies,
>> incredible companies. And so I think and
I'm hopeful
>> that the argument that you're making
visav China, which is a harder argument
than diffusion to the rest of the world.
I understand that. And that's why I
thought when the president said, you
know, I don't know, it's a flip of a
coin. Maybe Jensen's right. Maybe the
other guys are right. If Jensen's
willing to put a little bit of 15% into
the US Treasury as a hedge on that, then
I'll go for it. Um, but I was really
disappointed on the heels of that.
>> Mhm.
>> Um, I think if the Chinese feel like
they're being taken advantage of that
we're going to send them chips that are,
you know, 10 years old or something,
then I then I get why why they had that
response.
>> H20 is really quite spectacular still.
And I of course it it's it's not as good
as Blackwell and and I get that. Yeah.
>> Um I look, you know, we're I'm patient
and and I believe that they're they're
wise. They're thinking through their
situation. Um they they have they have
larger agendas to to deal with um rel
you know visibly uh the United States.
There are a lot of discussions going on.
But I'll come back to the ground truth
fundamental truth. I believe that is in
the best interest of China that Nvidia
is able to serve that market and compete
in that market. I fundamentally believe
is in the best interest of China. It is
of course um fantastic in the fantastic
interest of the United States.
>> Yeah,
>> it is fun. But those two truths can
coexist. It is possible for both to be
true and I believe it is both true.
>> And so I I um uh I I'm rather,
>> you know, even though I tell all of our
investors
>> Yeah.
>> that our guidance includes no China.
>> Yeah. And I appreciate all of our
investors to include no China in any of
our guidance.
>> We've got plenty of growth opportunities
outside and we you know we've got all of
that is true.
>> It doesn't make China not important to
us. It's very important to us. Anybody
who thinks that the Chinese market is
not important is has their head deep in
the sand.
>> Yeah.
>> And so this is s one of the most
important markets in the world. Smart
markets as you know, smart people doing
smart things and we want to be there.
>> Yeah. And I think it's in the best
interest of both countries that we are
there. And so I think when I take a step
back, I am confident that ultimately the
wisdom will prevail.
>> Yes.
>> I've I've always been confident that
wisdom prevails. I've always been
confident that that truth prevails and
uh it's taken me this far
and uh I believe I believe that to be
fundamentally true now. And so these
things will get sorted out and we will
have the opportunity to go compete in
that China market.
>> I'm not very political, but very topical
is the administration's decision to
charge 100,000 per H1B visa.
>> Mhm.
>> You've spent a lot of time with the
president. Um you've called him our
secret weapon in AI.
>> I also know you want to recruit the best
and brightest to our country.
>> Yeah. So, how do you think about the
decision to charge 100,000 per H1B visa?
Does this make it easier or harder to
recruit talent? And, you know, does
perhaps it's a little different for
large companies or small companies?
Like, how do you think about it?
>> I'm going to start with it's a great
start.
>> Hold on. You said it's a great start.
>> It's a great start.
>> I'm just going to start there. And the
reason for that is this.
>> That implies I don't I hope it's not the
end,
>> but I think it's a great start. I just
hope it's not the end. Here's what I
fundamentally believe.
America has one a singular brand
reputation that no country in the world
has. And no country in the world
is in a position or in the horizon to be
able to say come to America and realize
the American dream. M
>> what country has the word dream behind
it?
>> Yes, it's part of its brand.
>> We are utterly singular and you're
talking to somebody who represents the
American dream. My parents didn't have
any money. Sent us over here. We started
from nothing. You guys know I, you know,
bust tables, wash dishes, clean toilets,
and here I am.
>> Yeah.
>> This is the American dream. President
Trump knows that
>> we want legal immigrants.
>> Yeah. there's a difference between legal
immigrants and illegal immigrants.
>> But the idea that it's a country that's
free for all doesn't make sense.
>> And so now the question is how do we go
from
the the idea that we want to protect
fundamentally the American dream to
dealing with illegal immigrants at such
a large scale? Um how do we find a
logical pragmatic solution?
>> Right? So, the idea that he that that
that we put a $100,000 price tag on H-1B
um probably sets the bar a little too
high,
>> but as a first bar, it at least
eliminates um illegal immigration, and
that's a good start.
>> How does it how does eliminate illegal
immigration?
>> Well, it at least it eliminates abuse of
>> abuse of H-1B. Yeah. Yeah. At least. And
and that's a good start. and at least we
can have a conversation.
>> So, one of the things that we know about
President Trump, he's he he's a good
listener.
>> He actually listens. I mean, he listens
to you, he listens to me, and
>> he doesn't have to. And he listens to a
lot of people, and he's integrating a
lot of information, and this is
obviously a very complicated issue.
>> And so, so I think that that this is a
fine start. It's a fine start. But I I
I'm not confused that that anyone in the
administration, anyone in the White
House is confused that
legal immigration, immigration is the
foundation of the American dream and is
the ultimate brand that we want to
protect and that's the future we want to
protect.
>> And I would also say it seems to me that
certainly Saxs and other people in the
administration know that we have to
recruit the world's best and brightest.
we should not sacrifice the greatness of
the brand. Um, charging $100,000 or
let's say, you know, it got lowered to
50 or whatever the case is,
>> it does seem like it it it it tilts the
playing field in favor of big companies
who can effectively sponsor all these
people,
>> right?
>> And it's more challenging for the
startup ecosystem where people are
already super expensive and now I got to
pay this fee on top of it.
>> It also has an un an unintended
consequence. It might um accelerate
investment outside United States,
>> right? And so there there are unintended
consequences, but like I said,
>> start somewhere, move towards the right
answer, right? You know, often times
people want to go directly from a wrong
answer, wrong condition. We don't want
this condition where we're at,
>> right?
>> And directly jump to the perfect answer
is hard to find,
>> right?
>> Just start somewhere. It's the
entrepreneurial way.
>> It's important to me, you know, the
president talked about before when he
was running for office, he wanted to
staple a green card to the, you know, to
the diplomas of these STEM students. so
smart
>> people coming to the United States from
from China AI researchers studying at
Stanford like we want to keep them here
we want to get you know and by the way
>> if their families can't get here
>> they're going to leave after a few years
so you might even want to make it easier
for their families to come here and
others are you confident that we have a
strategic plan in this administration
you know this is a start but your
convers conversations they give you
confidence that we have a broader
strategic plan to make sure we're
recruiting the best and the brightest.
>> I don't know that I have an answer for
that.
>> Okay.
>> Um but I understand that where we're at
is not where we want to be.
>> Yeah.
>> And I don't think anybody's lost lost
their focus on, you know, the American
dream, the importance of immigration,
the importance of attracting all of the
world's best talent to United States,
create the conditions for them to stay
here. I there are things that are done
um from time to time that works against
what I just described,
>> right?
>> Um making making foreign students
uncomfortable,
>> right,
>> and being here in the brand threatens
the brand.
>> Um uh let's not let's not forget that
>> that it's okay to be competitive with
China,
>> but be careful not to be tough on
Chinese.
>> And so we need to make sure that that
slippery slope isn't crossed. Yeah.
>> Um, you know, and so there there all of
these things that goes along with with
finesse and nuance.
>> But the fact of the matter is we know
where we want to be. We know we're in a
difficult situation. We don't want to be
here and President Trump doesn't have
much time to move us in that direction.
>> Right.
>> And so to the extent that we move in
that direction,
>> I believe it's a good start.
>> Agreed.
>> Yeah. I heard from a Chinese researcher
leading one of our leading labs in the
US
>> that three years ago 90% of the top AI
researchers graduating from universities
in China
>> wanted to come to the United States and
did come to the United States to work in
our leading labs
>> and he guessed that today that's closer
to 10 or 15%.
>> Right? So seen a precipitous drop.
>> That's precisely a concern that we have,
>> right? So have you seen this? Have you
you you know you're you're paying
attention to both markets. Do you see
this? And what are the things we need to
do in order to reverse that?
>> Definitely see a greater concern of of
Chinese students um who who come here
and um uh remain here.
>> Yeah. and or many of them who come here
for for school and are thinking about
going elsewhere, right?
>> Many of them thinking about Europe,
>> right?
>> And so so I think I think we need to be
super super concerned about this. This
is this is
>> this is a source
>> of existential crisis.
>> This is definitely the early indicators
of a future problem.
>> Right. Right. you know, smart people's
desire to come to to America and smart
peop smart students desire to stay,
>> those are what I would call KPIs.
>> Yes.
>> Early indicators of future success.
>> I think of it a bit like the Warriors.
You know, if they have an advantage of
recruiting all the best players in the
NBA, right, then they can continue to
win championships. Y,
>> but the second that recruiting pipeline,
>> right, because of the brand of the
Warriors gets diminished or something
else happens,
>> um, then they're not going to be able to
recruit the best future players and
you're not going to win championships.
And when I you talk about the American
dream so eloquently, that being brand
USA,
>> right? The right to come here and to to
do what you've done. And you know, so I
hope that the feedback to this
administration, it's not just the
administration, it's also just how we as
a country talk about immigration.
>> That's right.
>> Right. This needs to be the place that
welcomes the best and the brightest,
that attracts, has a strategic plan for
recruiting the best and the brightest
and making sure that this is the place
that they want to work.
>> As you know, there's in in there's a
there's a phrase, and I didn't hear
about this phrase until just a few years
ago, China hawks. Yes.
>> And and apparently that if you're a
China hawk, you get to wear that label
with pride. It's almost like a badge of
honor,
>> right?
>> It's a badge of shame.
>> There's no question it's a badge of
shame.
>> There's no question that although they
want what's in the best interest of our
country, and we all want what's in the
best interest of our country,
>> um destroying that pipeline,
>> right,
>> of the American dream,
>> Yeah.
>> is not patriotic,
>> right?
They they think they think they're doing
the right thing for our country, but
it's not patriotic. Not Not even a
little bit.
>> And so we we need to um continue to be
uh the great country we are, to have the
confidence,
>> right,
>> of a great country.
>> Yes. Well said.
>> And to have the confidence of a great
country and and have somebody who wants
to compete with us and to have the
attitude, bring it on.
>> Right. Right.
>> Bring it on.
>> Right. because I believe in I believe in
our people. I believe in our people. I
believe in the people that are here. I
believe in our culture. I believe in our
country. I believe in our system. Bring
it on. And is it your take that that's
where the president is? Like he's a he's
a pragmatist. He's a he's a believer in
the growth and the ability of the United
States to compete. Um it seems to me
that's where he is.
>> There's no question President Trump is
the bring it on president.
>> Right. Right. And he doesn't seem to me
like the reason I'm confident and I've
said on this pod that I think he'll get
a big deal done with China.
>> I I really really do hope so.
>> Yeah.
>> And and I I think he he speaks he he
speaks positively um uh uh with great
respect and um great eloquence about
about his relationship and the
importance of China. Uh, not one time
have I ever heard him say the word
decouple, which we heard a lot in the
last administration,
>> right?
>> Um, you can't decouple against um the
single most the two most important
relationships for the next century. That
doesn't make any sense at all.
Decoupling is exactly the wrong concept.
>> Right?
>> I mean, it seems to me he and Scott
Besson are saying, "Listen, we need to
make America great. We need to
re-industrialize America. We need to
balance and make sure that we have fair
trade. Um that we protect industries
that we need to help build that China
helps us do that recognizing that we
have helped them do it over the course
of the last 25 years. But that
ultimately he said the best way to
understand me is I'm a great dealmaker.
I make deals right whereas I think in
other camps there are people who are
iconoclastic or dogmatic. Uh you know
it's the mere shimer view of China that
there's a great power struggle. one was
must win and one must lose versus this
idea
>> the idea that every country has to look
exactly like ours,
>> right?
>> You know, and we we want diversity.
>> You want America to win, but that
doesn't have to come at the expense of
poking an eye and telling somebody else
they have to lose
>> because we're that confident.
>> Yeah, we're that confident.
>> Because we're that mighty. Because we're
that incredible. I've got no trouble, as
you know, I've got no trouble working
with all my colleagues in the ecosystem,
right? And notice we just did the
ultimate deal,
>> right? Partnering with Intel,
>> a company that spent most of its life
trying to put us out of business, right?
>> And I had no trouble partnering with
them,
>> right?
>> You know, and so, and the reason for
that is because number one, bring it on.
>> Yes.
>> And number two, the future is so much
greater.
>> It doesn't have to be all us or them. It
could be us and them.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. But nonetheless, bring it on.
>> Yeah. Agreed. You know, you you you
mentioned something that's profoundly
important to both of us. You and I have
talked a lot about this, the American
dream,
>> you know, and it was, I think, Abraham
Lincoln who said, "Fundamental to the
American dream is the right to rise."
>> Yeah. That's right.
>> The belief that your kids can do better
than you did.
>> That's right.
>> Right. And you you've experienced the
right to rise. We've all experienced the
right to rise in America.
>> So, yeah, you go to Wikipedia, you look
up American dreams, my picture,
>> right?
>> Yeah. And the ultimate American dream.
And yet we live at this time where
because of the nature of these
technological systems, we have companies
that are going to be worth 10 trillion.
We'll probably have individuals that are
worth a trillion. Those are the
incentives that give people the the
encouragement to rise. But at the same
time, when we head into this age of
abundance, something that I was deeply
worried about was that too many people
get left behind.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. And they feel left out and left
behind. So it makes sense for them to
attack this system of capitalism.
Something that you and I worked on
together and I'm deeply grateful for was
the idea of invest America that we have
to start every kid at birth on the
capitalist right to rise journey give
them a thousand bucks in great companies
like Nvidia
>> social security
>> and and and open a high etc. Um and they
benefit
>> right as the as the comp country wins
they win and they own it individually
they can see it on their
>> every kid is a shareholder in the future
of America
>> of America. So on the 200 because of
your support and I wanted to take the
chance on this podcast and the support
of
>> Well, I want to thank you for starting
it, for driving it.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. What a great idea.
>> And you know, so this
>> you're a genius.
>> The Please this passed
>> in the big beautiful bill.
>> Most people don't even realize that yet.
>> Starting in 2026, every child born
forever more in the history of this
country
>> will start off with an investment
account at birth. Yeah.
>> Seen a thousand bucks in the best
American companies and your company has
agreed to add to the accounts of not
only the kids who work for your
employees but maybe even kids of others.
I'm going to adopt schools, you know,
and lots of philanthropists and
companies. We think every company across
America
>> wonderful way for companies to give
back,
>> right?
>> Yeah. as part of the 401k.
This seems to me to be part of the
change in the social contract that needs
to occur because if if we're seeing this
exponential progress, we know that the
the evolution of government in the
social contract needs to keep up with
it. Um obviously President Trump and and
bipartisan group in the House and Senate
passed this into law. So maybe just talk
to us a little bit when you think about
the the pace and magnitude of changes
that are coming, right? Um I know you
believe it will be a net good, but there
also going to be a bunch of people
displaced along the way. We probably
need things like this and other things,
>> right? In order to, you know, bring
everybody along for the journey. There's
several things that that President Trump
has done and let me just start start
there has done that is incredibly good
for bringing everybody along. The first
thing is reindustrializing America.
>> Yeah.
President Trump, Secretary Lutnik, the
you know they're all in behind that all
the work that they're doing encouraging
companies to come build here in the
United States, investing in factories
and uh reskilling and upskilling that
skilled labor workforce, right?
>> Incredibly valuable to our country. um
the idea that that we no longer uh uh uh
make it only that you get a PhD or you
go to you know one of the great schools
and only in that way can you build a
great life right
>> and and deserve to have a great living
uh we've got to change all that doesn't
make any sense we love craft right
>> I love people who make things with their
hands and and we're now we're now going
to go back and build things
>> build magnificent incredible things I
love that
>> yes
>> that's going to transform form America.
There's no question about that. There's
a whole there's a whole a whole band of
an economy, a whole band of society that
that um uh has been largely left behind
because we outsourced everything,
>> right?
>> Now, I'm not suggesting we insource
everything,
>> right?
>> You know, all the people arguing about,
you know, manufacturing tennis shoes and
toothpicks, I mean, you know, that's
that's denigrating a perfectly good
discussion into some insane level. You
know, we we've got to um recognize that
re-industrializ reindustrializing
America is is just fundamentally going
to be transform transformative number
one. Number two,
>> and aspirational.
>> Oh, it's fantastic.
>> Elon taking us to Mars, watching
spaceships caught with, you know, uh
chopsticks out of the sky. This is not
only great for the industrializing base
of America, it's aspirational for
>> Fantastic. That's right.
>> And then and then, uh, of course AI.
Yeah,
>> it is the greatest equalizer. Just think
everybody can have an AI now. The the
ultimate equalizer. We've closed the
technology divide. Remember the last
time that somebody had to learn has
wants to use a computer uh for their
economic um or career benefit. They have
to learn C++ or C or at least Python.
Now they just have to learn human,
>> you know. And so, and if you don't know
how to program an AI, you tell the AI,
"Hi, I don't know how to program an AI.
How do I program an AI?" And the AI
explains it to you
>> or does it for you.
>> It does it for you. And so, it's
incredible, isn't that right? It's And
we've now closed the technology divide
with technology.
>> Yeah.
>> This is something that every everybody's
got to engage. You know, OpenAI has 800
million active users. Um gosh, it really
really needs to be 6 billion.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. It really needs to be 8 billion
soon. And so so I think that that that's
number one. Then number two, uh and then
number three, you know, I think the the
um AI will change tasks.
>> Yeah.
>> The thing that people confuse is there
are many tasks that will be
eliminated. There are many tasks that
will actually be created.
>> But it is very likely that for many
people their jobs are gainfully
protected. Right.
>> And so, for example, I'm using AI all
the time. You're using AI all the time.
My analysts are using AI all the time.
My engineers, every one of them use AI
continuously.
>> And we're hiring more engineers. We're
hiring more people. We're hiring across
the board. The reason for that is
because we have more ideas.
>> Yes,
>> we can now go pursue more ideas. The
reason for that is because our company
became more productive. And because we
became more productive, we became more
rich. We became more rich, we can hire
more people to go after those ideas,
>> right?
The I the concept that that AI comes
along and therefore there's going to be
a mass destruction of jobs starts with
the I starts with the premise that we
have no more ideas.
>> Right.
>> It starts with the premise we have
nothing left to do. Everything we're
doing in our lives today.
>> Yeah.
>> This is the end.
>> And if somebody else were to do that one
task for me, I have one task left. Now I
have to sit there and wait for
something.
>> Yes.
>> You know, wait for retirement, sit on my
rocking chair. That idea doesn't make
sense to me.
>> And so I think I think that intelligence
is not a zero sum game. The more
intelligent people I'm surrounded by,
the more geniuses I'm surrounded by,
surprisingly, the more ideas I have, the
more problems I imagine that we can go
solve,
>> the more work we create, the more jobs
we create. And so I think for for um I
don't know what the world looks like in
a million years that's going to be left
for my my children. Um but for the next
several decades, my sense is that
economy is going to grow. Lots of new
jobs are going to be created. Every job
will be changed. Some job some jobs will
be lost. And um uh we're not going to
be, you know, riding horses on streets
and those things it'll be fine. You
know, humans are are famously skeptical
and terrible at understanding
compounding systems and they're even
worse at understanding exponential
systems that accelerate with size.
>> We've talked about exponentials a lot
today. You know, the great futurist Ray
Kerszswhile said in the 21st century,
we're not going to have a hundred years
of progress. We're likely to have 20,000
years of progress.
>> Right.
You said earlier, we're so fortunate to
be living at this moment and
contributing to this moment. I'm not
going to ask you to look out 10 or 20 or
30 years because I think it's so
challenging. But when we think about
things like robots,
>> 30 years is easier than 2030.
>> Oh, really?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Okay. So, I'll get I I'll grant you
license to go out 30. as you think out
over the course of I like these shorter
time frames because they have to marry
bits and atoms bits and Adams the hard
part of building this stuff right
because everybody's saying it's going to
happen
>> is interesting but not helpful
>> exactly but if we have 20,000 years of
progress reflect on that statement by
Ray reflect on exponentials and how all
of our listeners whether you work in
government whether you're in a startup
whether you're you know running a big
company need to be thinking about the
accelerating rate of change, the
accelerating rate of growth and how you
will, you know, be co-intelligent in
this new world.
Well, there there are a lot of things
that that that many people have already
said and and um and they're all they're
all very sensible. I think the the um uh
in the next 5 years, one of the things
that that is really cool that's going to
get solved is the fusion of artificial
intelligence and megatronics, robotics.
And so we're going to have we're going
to have, you know, AIS that are that are
going to be wandering around us.
>> And uh we all and that everybody knows
uh we all all know that we're going to
all grow up with our own R2-D2.
>> Yeah.
>> And that R2-D2 remember everything about
us and coach us along the way and be our
companion. We already know that.
>> Okay. and and so the idea and and and
the idea that every human will have
their own GPUs associated with them in
the cloud um and that they're 8 billion
people 8 billion GPUs that's a you know
viable outcome.
>> Yeah. you know, and so
>> and each having their own model that's
fine-tuned for them,
>> fine-tuned for them. And they that that
AI is in the cloud is also embodied in a
whole bunch of it's embodied in your
car. It's embodied in your own robot.
It's everywhere with you.
>> And so that I think that that future is
a very sensible thing. the idea that uh
we're we're going to understand the the
infinite complexity of biology and
understanding the system of biology uh
and how it how how to predict it and
have digital twins of every everybody um
our own digital twin for health care
like we have a digital twin for shopping
at Amazon why wouldn't we have our
digital twin at healthcare of course we
would and so uh you know a dig a system
that that predicts how our how we're
going to age what disease will likely
going to have and uh anything that's
that's about to happen maybe even next
week or you know tomorrow afternoon and
predict it early. Of course, we're going
to have all that. And so I think all of
that is a given.
Um I think the the the the part that
that I'm asked a lot by uh CEOs that I
work with about now given all of that,
what happens? What do you do? And this
is this is the this is a common sense of
of things that move fast,
>> right?
>> If you if you have a if you have a train
that's about to get faster and faster
and go exponential, the only thing that
you really need to do is get on it.
>> Yeah.
>> And once you get on it, you'll figure
everything else out along the way.
>> Right.
>> And so to predict where that train's
going to be,
>> right,
>> and try to shoot a bullet at it. Yeah.
or predict where that train's going to
be and it's going exponentially faster
every second and go figure out what
intersection to wait for it,
>> right?
>> That's impossible.
Just get on it while it's going kind of
slowly,
>> right?
>> And go exponential along the way. A lot
of people think this just happened
overnight. You know, you've been you've
been at this for 35 years. I remember
hearing Larry Pageige say probably
around 2005 or 2006 that the end state
of Google will be when the machine can
predict uh the question before you even
answer it before you even ask it and
give you the answer without having to
look right. I heard Bill Gates say in
>> because contextually you must be asking
about you must be wondering about that.
>> I heard Bill Gates say in 2016 when
somebody said hasn't all the things been
done we've had the internet we've had
cloud we've had mobile social etc. He
said, "We haven't even started." He
said, "What do you think? Why would you
say that?" He said, "We won't even begin
until machines go from being dumb
calculators to beginning to think for
themselves, to think with us,
>> right?" Um, kind of that is the moment,
>> right, that we're in. I think to have
leaders like you, leaders like Sam and
Elon, Satcha, etc., it's such an
extraordinary advantage for this
country, right? and to have the
cooperation that we see between a system
of risk capital that I take, you know,
that I'm part of which can provide the
risk capital for people to do. We don't
we're not relying on government having a
Manhattan project. We can actually do
this ourselves and together for the
benefit of the country. It's an
extraordinary time
>> and at a scale that's unimaginable.
>> Right. Right. It's an extraordinary
time. But I also think, you know, one of
the things that I'm just grateful is
that we have leaders who also understand
their responsibility to the fact that we
are creating change at an accelerating
rate. And we know while it will most
likely be great for the vast majority,
there'll be challenges along the way.
And we'll deal with those as they come
>> and raise the floor for everybody and
make sure that this is an a win, not
just for some elite bureaucrats at the
top hanging out in Silicon Valley.
>> And don't scare them. Bring them along.
Don't scare them. Bring them along.
>> And we will.
>> Yeah.
>> So, thank you for that.
>> Exactly.
[Music]
[Applause]
As a reminder to everybody, just our
opinions, not investment advice.